>> Scott Moss: I'm back to
talk more about GraphQL.
Super excited,
it's one of my favorite segment,
one of my most favorite technologies.
And this is the only platform that I
teach on because Frontend Masters and
Mark and the team.
It's always a good time.
And like Mark said, so much has changed
in GraphQL landscape since last I talked
about it, and
even then I only talked about server side,
things with GraphQL,
which is like evolving in
a completely different direction
than what you can do on the client.
So this time I want to talk about GraphQL
from the back end perspective and
also the front end perspective,
using some of the most popular
implementations out there, which include
Node and also React on the front end.
So if you're interested in learning how
to use GraphQL on a different server or
on a different framework, a lot of this,
I would say 80% of it is still going to
apply to you because it's focusing just on
GraphQL which doesn't really change
on the framework, anything like that.
And then the last 20% is specific to
the platform that we on which is Node or
React.
So you still get a lot from this.
To start things off, there is a repose,
let me get you that URL if
you didn't get it all ready.
But it'll be on GitHub,
Frontend Masters, Fullstack GraphQL.
So the only dependencies you need for
this is no version greater than six.
There's no database.
There's nothing like that.
I cleaned all that up.
I learned my lesson of having everyone
try to install Mongo [LAUGH] I
didn't try to get this going.
I don't want to focus on
databases this course.
We're purely focusing on GraphQL and
that's the beauty of GraphQL
that you'll find out.
It doesn't really matter what you use for
your data source.
So, yeah, I just put down this repo and
the links of the slides are in the read
me, so you can click on that and
follow along,
if you're online, if you're here you can
also follow along or just watch my screen.
So, with that being said,
I'm just gonna go ahead and
kick things off with the slides.
So the first thing is I want to
talk about GraphQL the big picture.
What is it?
When people's mentioned GraphQL I
think there's a lot of,
there's different scenarios of what they
could be talking about because GraphQL
itself covers a lot of things.
But basically what I
think of GraphQL is and
this is kind of my definition is it's
a spec that describes a declarative query
language that your clients can use to
ask an API for the exact data they want.
This is achieved by creating
a strongly typed Schema for
your API, ultimate flexibility, and
how your API can resolve data and
client queries validated
against your Schema.
Now all that just sounds crazy, but
it took me a while to come up with that
definition to get this so many different
things over what I believe GraphQL.
So basically what this is saying,
if you ever use any strong typed
language like Java, or TypeScript or
anything like that, imagine putting a type
system in front of an existing API.
And then now on any client if
they want to interact with API
they could leverage that type system to
ask the API for exactly what they wanted.
So if you created some types
with some fields on it,
then you could from the client say, give
me this data with these exact fields and
the API will respond back
with that exact shape
just like if you were using a type
system on astronomy typed language.
It's basically that as far as like how
the client interacts with it service side,
as you find out, there's a lot more to it.
It's actually a graph.
You're creating a graph.
If you don't know what a graph is,
you're going to learn what a graph is.
And, and we'll get into it.
Any questions on that?
What is GraphQL?
After me telling you the definition
I don't expect you to know everything
about GraphQL.
So if you still don't know
what GraphQL is, that's fine.
This is just to give you some context.
>> Scott Moss: So like I said,
it's just a speck,
GraphQL itself is not a repo somewhere.
It's not a It's not a framework,
it's literally just a spec and
here's the link to it.
If you click this,
it'll actually take you to the spec
that was created by the people who
created GraphQL which is Facebook.
Facebook created GraphQL.
And here's the spec for it and
it changes all the time.
If we go to look at this one they
have here, you start scrolling, yeah,
it looks like what a spec
looks like very boring.
A lot of stuff that you probably don't
want to read and it just scrolls forever.
That's what a spec is.
So if you really want to understand
how GraphQL works and the ins and
outs, then go do this.
This is what GraphQL.
It's just this spec.
See how Facebook created this spec,
which spawned from some internal
thing that they were using,
there are several implementations and
variations of that spec.
So like I said, it's just a spec, people
from the community, including Facebook
themselves have taken that spec and
created different libraries and
frameworks and implementations,
based off languages and
platforms and the there's so
many different graphical things out there.
So, talking about server side, we actually
don't want to say that right now.
So when we get into GraphQL on
the server side, there's gonna be,
how you handle GraphQL
on the server side and
how you handle on the client side
are two different scenarios.
So, on the server side, the whole purpose
of GraphQL is to create some type of graph
that's based off some shapes that
you are want to expose in API.
And then you need to allow
the client to query that graph
in whatever direction they want.
You have no idea, how the clients gonna
query, and you're gonna find out in little
bit and that's the whole purpose of server
side GraphQL from a client's perspective.
There's other things associated with
GraphQL and server side that we're not
going to cover in this course
that's more advanced things.
And that's like communicating with
like other GraphQL services and
doing service discovery and
meshing APIs together and
all that crazy stuff creating
Federations and stuff like that.
That's a whole another thing.
That's more advanced, for this course
we're focusing on server side GraphQL for
the client,
which is a lot easier to conceptualize.
So for this course, one of the
implementations that we're going to use is
going to be obviously
GraphQL server side in Node.
So this is primarily going to be a Node or
all of it's going to be in Node.
We're gonna be using
a library called Apollo.
Apollo is a company.
Have you ever heard of
a framework called Meteor?
Okay, so the same people that
made Meteor made Apollo,
they kind of just pivoted,
I don't even work on Meteor anymore.
They now do Apollo and Apollo, they have
services that you can use GraphQL for,
but they are very well known for
their open source that they use
to create a lot of GraphQL stuff.
And the library that we're gonna use
is gonna be called Apollo server.
So that's just to give you some
context of what we're gonna be doing.
Now, server side, for
us to actually compose
a GraphQL API, there's a few things that
we're gonna need and this is just for
me to go over you and this is a complete
overview, we're gonna go into more detail
about each one of these things
later on in the course, but
just giving you an overview
of some context.
So first thing is really
something called type definitions.
So like I said, this is a strongly
typed language of a sort,
and because of that you have to create
type definition, so if you've ever used
something like Java or TypeScript
you'll create some types, right?
It's the same thing with GraphQL.
You're gonna create types,
those types are usually
based off on shapes in your database,
Schemas, things like that,
or some other third-party research
you're gonna interact with.
That's what they're usually based off on.
You're also gonna create
something called resolvers.
If you ever built something on a server,
I guess you could think of this as
controllers and the rest API or something
like that, they're responsible for
actually retrieving data
from a data source,
whether it's a database in memory,
Redis or
rest API, wherever the data is, it's
the resolver's job to go fetch that data.
We have query definitions, and
we also have mutation definitions.
These are specific types that allow
us to ask our API for data, or
modify data, whether it's updating,
deleting, or creating things like that.
And then we have like I said,
compositions, so
this is a bit more advanced.
But this is the ability to compose
different APIs together underneath one
GraphQL umbrella and that's something new
that the community the direction is going.
I think GraphQL started off in a way,
this is really great for
client side front end developers.
It's super awesome.
But I think now people are starting to
realize, hold on, this is really good for
back end too, for transporting data
across many different services and
have the GraphQL API sitting in front of
it and have one unified type save API.
There's a lot of benefits, there that
a lot of people are just not realizing.
So that's what that is.
And then all that together
kind of just creates a Schema.
So our type definitions are resolvers or
queries and mutations, all that
comes together and we have a Schema.
Client side, we have queries,
which are what we use to access the data
on our API from the query definitions.
We also have mutations which is how
we want to modify data on our server.
So if we want to create or create or
update or delete, we will do mutation.
And then we have fragments and
we'll talk a little more about fragments.
This is just an overview, but
fragments are just little pieces of shared
queries and mutations so we don't
have to rewrite them all over again.
>> Scott Moss: All right,
so that was a lot.
I wanted to go over that and
get that out the way so
you'll have some context
when we get back to it.
But where does GraphQL fit in?
So I talked about what GraphQL is,
some different moving pieces of it,
how does it fit in to your
architecture right now?
So there's a couple of ways.
One is a traditional GraphQL
server with a connected database.
And I put most greenfields
are gonna have this.
And this is what we're gonna
be doing in this course.
You just gonna have a server.
It's primarily gonna be GraphQL and
it has one data source which
is usually a database.
And that's a traditional thing.
If you're building out a new project with
GraphQL you're most likely going to be
doing this.
The second one is
a GraphQL server as a layer
in front of many other
third party services.
So you can think of if you have a service
or oriented architecture with different
servers everywhere, this GraphQL server
was sit in front of all of them, and
it would unify them with just one API.
So if you go to interact
with any of your services,
instead of going to each one individually,
you would just hit the GraphQL API,
which would allow you to interact
with all of them with just one API.
So that's one way to do it and the next
one is just a hybrid approach where you
have a GraphQL server that's connected to
a database, but it also communicates with
other third party resources via
resolvers so that's a hybrid approach.
There's other ways you can use GraphQL I
mean it's literally their package called
GraphQL anywhere we could use it anywhere.
But these are the three biggest
places I've seen GraphQL use.
I said we're gonna focus
on the first one today.
The most simplest one.
So I talked about a little
bit about the the tools,
we're going to use it with Node.
But basically, for the server side,
we're gonna use an Apollo server.
There's another one called GraphQL Yoga.
If you've ever Google that,
you've probably seen that,
we're not gonna be using that,
one that is also really good.
There's plenty other ones.
As far as services, if you want it to
just get into GraphQL and get something
deployed really quick without having to
write code, you have something called
Amplify from AWS, which basically allows
you to write GraphQL and things like that.
It deploys it for you.
You don't have to do anything.
There's also others.
They used to be some more, but
they kind of just shut down.
And then as far as tools,
there's this thing called Prisma.
And also many other things.
And the reason I'm showing you all this
because you're gonna come across this as
you're working on this curriculum, and
I just want to let you know if you come
across this stuff, this is what you're
gonna see but we're gonna be focusing on
Apollo server specifically,
its implementation of GraphQL